Monkeyshines is a tool for doing an algorithmic scrape.

It's designed to handle large-scale scrapes that may exceed the capabilities of single-machine relational databases, so it plays nicely with Hadoop / Wukong, with distributed databases (MongoDB, tokyocabinet, etc.), and distributed job queue (eg "edamame/beanstalk":http://mrflip.github.com/edamame).

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

h2. Overview

A monkeyshines scraper is simple in principle:





h2. Request Queue

h3. Periodic requests

Request stream can be metered using read-through, scheduled (eg cron), or test-and-sleep.

* Scheduled
* Test and sleep. A queue of resources is cyclically polled, sleeping whenever bored.



h2. Requests

* Base: simple fetch and store of URI. (URI specifies immutable unique resource)
* : single resource, want to check for updates over time.
* Timeline:
** Message stream, eg. twitter search or user timeline. Want to do paginated requests back to last-seen 
** Feed: Poll the resource and extract contents, store by GUID. Want to poll frequently enough that single-page request gives full coverage.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

h2. Scraper

* HttpScraper --
** JSON
** HTML
*** \0 separates records, \t separates initial fields; 
*** map \ to \\, then tab, cr and newline to \t, \r and \n resp.
*** map tab, cr and newline to &#x9; &#xD; and &#xA; resp.


x9 xa xd x7f

* HeadScraper -- records the HEAD parameters

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

h2. Store 


* Flat file (chunked)
* Key store
* Read-through cache

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

h2. Periodic

* Log only every N requests, or t minutes, or whatever.
* Restart session every hour
* Close file and start new chunk every 4 hours or so. (Mitigates data loss if a file is corrupted, makes for easy batch processing).

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

h2. Pagination

h4. Session

* *Twitter Search*: Each req brings in up to 100 results in strict reverse ID (pseudo time) order. If the last item ID in a request is less than the previous scrape session's max_id, or if fewer than 100 results are returned, the scrape session is complete.  We maintain two scrape_intervals: one spans from the earliest seen search hit to the highest one from the previous scrape; the other ranges backwards from the highest in _this_ scrape session (the first item in the first successful page request) to the lowest in this scrape session (the last item on the most recent successful page request).

** Set no upper limit on the first request. 
** Request by page, holding the max_id fixed
** Use the lowest ID from the previous request as the new max_id
** Use the supplied 'next page' parameter

* *Twitter Followers*: Each request brings in 100 followers in reverse order of when the relationship formed. A separate call to the user can tell you how many _total_ followers there are, and you can record how many there were at end of last scrape, but there's some slop (if 100 people in the middle of the list /un/follow and 100 more people at the front /follow/ then the total will be the same).  High-degree accounts may have as many as 2M followers (20,000 calls).

* *FriendFeed*: Up to four pages. Expiry given by result set of <100 results.


* Paginated: one resource, but requires one or more requests to 
** Paginated + limit (max_id/since_date): rather than request by increasing page, request one page with a limit parameter until the last-on-page overlaps the previous scrape.  For example, say you are scraping search results, and that when you last made the request the max ID was 120_000; the current max_id is 155_000. Request the first page (no limit). Using the last result on each page as the new limit_id until that last result is less than 120_000.
** Paginated + stop_on_duplicate: request pages until the last one on the page matches an already-requested instance.
** Paginated + velocity_estimate: . For example, say a user acquires on average 4.1 followers/day and it has been 80 days since last scrape. With 100 followers/req you will want to request ceil( 4.1 * 80 / 100 ) = 4 pages.

h4. Rescheduling

Want to perform next scrape to give a couple pages or a mostly-full page. Need to track a rate (num_items / timespan), clamped to a min_reschedule / max_reschedule bounds.

